# Making a Live Security Camera with OBS.

In December 2019, I was committed to turning my old mobile device into a live security camera. Simply because I was bored. This could be done simply with two applications, obs and droidcam, droidcam would send the camera feed from my phone to obs. The only problem now is that obs is made to livestream to the internet. I had to learn how to make my server accessible only to devices in my own home. I was first suggested to use nginx, sadly this method was not intuitive because this method uses rtmp for streaming, it was not supported in some browsers, devices, and video players. I then found I could make a local live stream recording into a location on my device, using the apple http live streaming format (hls), and then I could make an apache server share the live feed. A problem though was that the recordings were not good, the one hour footage was divided in many .ts files that lasted only a few seconds. I created multiple scripts, one python script renamed the files so they were numbered, starting with 1. Then I used ffmpeg to combine them all into one file (concatenating them together). To save on storage space, I also used the handbrake command line to re-encode the files, reduce file size, and make sure they don't suffer any compatibility issues. Finally a final command is executed to rename the finished video file into something that includes the date and time it was recorded. This is done every few hours by a script that OBS opens when the recording stops, though if I preferred I could make it so it happens every day at 2:00am (for storage and testing purposes, it's every few hours).

This project involved PowerShell, Python, HTML5, and Bash knowledge. It also used cli software such as FFMPEG, and HandBrake. And used gui applications such as OBS, and DroidCam. In this link you can see some of the scripts I used and what my camera looks like [https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/10rj730U0ReVNVWSM5GptY4WZM5XcecLE?usp=sharing](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/10rj730U0ReVNVWSM5GptY4WZM5XcecLE?usp=sharing) (note: I considered uploading them on Github, but it would be very inconvenient for me to update, and very inconvenient for you to download and implement on your apache server. Copyright might make it more complicated as well)

Gimp an image of my old phone. (in progress)
